To test the retargeting on our character let's bring in a character from the asset store.
So I'll come over here to the asset store in unity.
And we're just going to bring in the standard assets.
These are free assets that come with unity that you can use for testing or or games or for anything
you want.
I'm going to type in standard assets here in the search field and then here we are standard assets unity
technology.
So I'll click that and I've already downloaded this.
If you haven't you may get a download button here and then you'll have to click import.
But for me I'm just gonna click import here and this will import all of these downloaded assets into
our unity project here.
Now there's a lot here and we're certainly not going to use everything but instead of going through
and trying to figure out only the things that we want I'm just going to import all of it here.
I'll just click import.
All right.
So now that has been imported let's go back to our same view here and under our assets Boulder we've
got this new folder called standard assets.
And in here we've got a folder called characters and in here we've got a third person character.
Let me open that up and under prefabs.
This is what we want.
Third Person controller.
Now what I first need to do is create a ground plane a floor for these guys to move around on.
So let's come over here and go to game object and 3D object and plane and we go let's take this down
to 0 0 0 0 tabs 0 tab 0 and we go.
And I want to make it a little bit bigger.
This isn't quite big enough to run around on I don't think let's take the scale of this up to 5 in the
x and 5 in the z that just gives us more room to play with their and then what let's do is take this
third person control or prefab and drag it up here into the hierarchy and there we go.
Now when I hit the f key and zoom in now there is the character that we brought in from our standard
assets.
If we click play I'm just gonna come up here and hit the play button
and use the arrow keys.
We can run this guy around.
Where do you go.
There he is.
So we can run him around with the arrow keys and we can hit the spacebar and jump and hit the C key
and duck so we've got some pretty good animations here with the idol the run the jump.
So let's see if we can get these animations going on our character.
I'll hit the play button here and turn that off.
Now keep in mind that when when you're animating a character you're really animating for that particular
body type.
Those proportions so not all animations are going to work on all characters and that's sometimes what
you need to test before you decide on what kind of animations you want to use or if you want to use
your own animations will like we're going to do here in a bit too.
In addition if we go back to our assets window and choose to player idle you can see here that we've
got warnings and if we scroll down under this import messages you can see here that what it's saying
is that this particular problem might lower the retargeting quality that it's having a problem with
spine to to recall that that's the chest bone and it's having trouble figuring out the rotation of that
bone.
So that could be a problem when we do the retargeting here.
That might not work but it's a good test.
It's a good process to go through and a good thing to know.
So you know you can find animation say on the asset store and try them out on your character.
All right.
So how do you do that.
How do you retarget an animation from one character to another.
Well the first thing you need to do is I'm going to take our character this player Idol and I'm going
to drag it right on top of this third person controller and that basically parents it or creates a parent
child relationship with this third person controller and it's got a lot of components here that's helping
it move around in the scene.
So by parenting this to this third person controller we're going to allow our character to use all of
this information to use the animations the scripts et cetera.
And the main thing that's driving the character the animations is this animator and you can see here
that the animator has a third person animator controller and it's got an avatar the Ethan avatar.
Now if we come over here to our character and scroll this one down we see we've got an armature this
one up here has a skeleton.
We've got our character.
They've got the body here.
So it's a similar setup but if I choose the player idol you can see we have an animator here as well.
But we do not have an animator controller.
We've got our player idle avatar.
That's good.
That was created when we imported it in.
But we don't have a controller and in fact what we want to do is remove this animator completely so
it defaults to the animator up in the third person controller.
So let's click on the little gear here and choose remove component.
Now this is going to default up to the top.
And what we need to do in this third person controller we need to change the Avatar.
We want to click on this little circle and come over here and choose our player idle Avatar right there.
Now let's close this.
Now we need to take away the body and the glasses of the Ethan character.
We could just delete these but I think what I'm going to do is just come over here and uncheck them
right here and I'm going to select the glasses and uncheck those here.
So those are hidden away or disabled in the scene view.
All right.
So let's give this a try now.
If I click the play button let's see what happens well look at that.
Now can you see him he's actually going through the idle animation if I hit the arrow keys.
I'll hit the down key.
Here he comes so there we go.
We have read targeted the animation to our character.
But take a look at how he's standing.
The knees are pulled in the arms are straight down the animations don't always work from one character
to another so it isn't a strict one to one thing you can just create any old character and grab any
old animation and it will work perfectly.
It isn't quite like that.
We can turn him around here areas and I can hit the spacebar.
There's our jump.
I can hit the C key.
There's our duck.
You can see it's really pulling away here.
So this is kind of an extreme example of how not all animations are going to work with all animated
characters but I wanted you to see how it works.
Just so you can test it out and there are other animations on the asset store that you can use and give
this a try.
It's it's kind of fun.
So I'll go ahead and hit the play button to stop that.
And now what we should do is work on bringing our own animations in and setting up our animations for
our character here.
So that's coming up in the next video.